Good afternoon.
My name is Kevin Perry,
and I'm an engineer on
the Cocoa Frameworks team.
Today, we're talking about using
iCloud with NSDocument.
Your users get their work done
inside of your application.
And we want to eliminate as many
distractions that take them out
of your application as possible.
There are some cloud implementations
expose themselves as a folder or volume
that requires the users to often drop
down into Finder to manage their files,
organize them,
and do things like resolve conflicts.
With iCloud,
we're able to remove these distractions
by integrating the iCloud experience
directly into the application.
This provides a seamless user experience.
The user is able to resolve
conflicts right in the app.
They're able to manage their
documents without having to
go into Finder and so forth.
This integration does put additional
responsibility on applications.
However, for document-based
applications on Mountain Lion,
NSDocument takes care of all
the UI and functionality that
is required from document-based
applications when using iCloud.
These features include file coordination,
which is required to properly
communicate changes to and from iCloud.
Document Management UI,
Conflict Notification and Resolution UI,
and alerts for exceptional situations.
For example,
when a user's document isn't being
uploaded to iCloud because they're over
quota with their document storage space.
So let's dive in and talk about
the first step to enabling
these iCloud document features,
and that's adopting iCloud in
general in your application.
To do this,
you need to properly set up your
application's provisioning profile.
Provisioning profile is a document
that identifies your development team,
defines the devices your
application can run on,
And grants iCloud support
to your applications.
And finally,
defines your Ubiquiti container,
which is the location on the local
computer where the instance of your
user's documents are saved with iCloud.
The provisioning profile is
configured and downloaded
from the provisioning portal,
which is on the developer website.
There's lots of documentation there about
how to set that up there on the website,
so I'll just refer you to that.
The next step is to add proper
entitlements to your application.
And this is really as simple as just a
few clicks in Xcode in the new version.
So let me go ahead and switch to
a demo where I can show you this.
Here we have the venerable
Sketch sample application.
And first thing I want to show
you is here in the organizer.
You can see in the provisioning profiles,
I've already got my provisioning
profile that I've configured
for Sketch imported here.
So that's really the first step.
The next is to go to the project summary.
And down here you see
An option to enable entitlements.
So let's click that.
We don't need sandboxing
for this particular demo,
but we do want to now add an iCloud
container for this application.
Kick Plus.
NX code automatically populates
this with the container name that
I specified in the provisioning profile.
The last step is to switch over to
build settings here and make sure
that we're signing the application
with the proper identity.
See here I have the one that matches
the provisioning profile for Sketch.
Select that.
Build and run.
And here we have Sketch,
and the first thing you
see is the new open panel,
which you saw during the keynote.
This is built directly into the
application and provides a very
simple and familiar user interface
for managing iCloud documents.
It's a matter of double-clicking
to open a document.
And to add or remove documents to iCloud,
the user can simply drag a document in.
or drag it back out similarly.
And they can even delete
documents directly from iCloud.
So any of the file management that a user
would need to do with iCloud documents
is handled right here in the open panel.
You don't need to implement that
yourself in your application.
Also, I have a document here that,
when I open it, presents me with a
conflict resolution panel.
And I can get additional
information about these documents,
a preview,
so I can make an informed decision
about which one I want to keep.
Finally,
you'll notice that when I create a
new document and start to edit it,
The document is automatically
saved into iCloud.
And this makes it really easy for users
to get their documents into iCloud and
share them between other applications.
It provides a really
streamlined user experience.
So that's a very quick demo of all
of NSDoctument's iCloud features.
As I said,
the first step to doing that is enabling,
configuring your provisioning profile
and enabling those entitlements.
There is one other thing that I,
one other modification I made to
the sample application beforehand,
and I want to talk about this before
we talk about more iCloud topics,
and that's Auto Save.
Auto Save is a feature
that we added in Lion,
and we really encourage all
NSDoctument-based applications
to adopt this feature.
There are a lot of reasons
why you'd want to do this.
First and foremost,
it provides a modern document workflow
so that users aren't required to think
about the difference of what's on screen
and what's on disk at any given time.
To the user, we give them an illusion
that they're the same,
and effectively they are.
Enabling Auto Save also
gives you versions,
which allows you to go back in
time and revert to a previous
version of the document.
Adopting Auto Save also provides
a more seamless experience with
auto termination and resume,
since we're not required to ask
the user about unsaved changes.
As I mentioned, in order to get all of
NSDoctument's iCloud features,
you need to use Auto Save.
One of the primary reasons is that
enabling Auto Save turns on an
implementation of file coordination
that's built into NSDocument.
Enabling Auto Save is very simple.
In your document subclass,
override autosaves in
place and return yes.
But what implications does
this have for your application?
In short, it causes NSDoctument to use
two new saving operations,
NSAutosaveElsewhere operation
and NSAutosaveInPlace operation.
Before I talk about these new saving
operations that we added in Lion,
let me talk about the other
saving operations that already
exist in NSDoctument and have
since the beginning of OS X.
The first is a save in place,
which we show to the
user in the UI as save,
and the API for that is NSSaveOperation.
The way this works is a
document references a file,
and as changes are made to the
document and save with NSSaveOperation,
we safely replace the contents of that
referenced file with the new ones.
Save elsewhere,
which we expose to the user as export,
and in the API is called
NSSaveToOperation.
This works by prompting
the user for a location,
and then this document saves
the current contents of the
document to that new location,
and then promptly forgets about it,
and continues to save changes
that are made to the document
to the original file.
Save elsewhere and redirect is
exposed to the user as SaveAs,
and in the API, NSSaveAs operation.
This works very similar
to Save Elsewhere,
in that we prompt the user for
a location and save the current
contents of the document there.
However, from that point,
the document now starts to
reference this newly created file
and forgets about the old one.
Users often use this as a sort
of ad hoc versioning mechanism.
When enabling auto saving in place,
we add a new column to this table.
All the prior three operations
are all user-initiated,
but these new ones happen automatically.
They happen automatically
for several reasons.
For example,
when the user edits a document,
and this document will start
a timer and aims to save the
document when the user is idle.
Also, when the user switches
away from an application,
that's a good hint that
it's a good time to save,
and indeed, the user might be trying
to use that document to,
for example, attach the file to an email.
Also, file coordination can sometimes
prompt your NSDoctument to save
itself so that whatever operation
reader or writer is trying to access
your document has the latest contents.
Let's start with
NSAutoSaveElsewhere operation.
This is similar to export in that
it uses a completely different file
than the one the document references.
NSDocument uses this for
untitled documents that are
kept locally on the computer.
Since untitled documents don't have a
user-visible file associated with them,
but we still want to ensure crash
protection and resume functionality,
NSDocument uses NSAutoSaveElsewhere
operation to save any changes that are
made to the file in a hidden location
in the user's library directory.
This file remains until the
user finally chooses to save as.
A user-visible file is created,
and the autosaved document is deleted.
And it's Auto Save in Place operation
acts very much like an SAVE operation
in that when the user makes changes,
we save the contents directly over
the existing file in a safe manner.
The only difference is that this
happens automatically without
any direct user interaction.
Let me show you another quick demo.
First, let's go back to the code
and my document subclass,
SKT document.
And you can see here that I have
indeed overridden auto saves in place,
and I'm returning yes.
And while Sketch is a simple application,
it conforms very well to NSDoctumets API.
And any application,
even a more complex one,
that behaves properly like Sketch,
will have an easy time
of enabling Auto Save.
So let's go back to the application.
And you can see as I'm making
changes to the document,
up here in the title bar,
you see that there's an indication
that the document has been edited.
This is a notification to the user
that the document has been changed in
case they have made unintended edits.
And right here,
convenient in the title bar,
is an option to revert to
the last unsaved version,
in this case, the last open version.
And we convert to that very easily.
Also,
if I make changes and close the window,
I'm not prompted about
those changes because,
again,
what we see on the screen is effectively
what's on disk at any given time.
Finally, we also have the option
to browse versions.
We're taken into this time machine-like
interface where we can browse previous
versions and choose one to restore.
So that's a very quick overview
of the features that enabling
Auto Save buys your users.
And again, we feel that this is the
future of NSDoctument,
and new features like iCloud and
those that might come in the future
will very likely be reliant on
auto saving to function completely.
When enabling auto save,
obviously we're going to be saving
without the user's knowledge and
more frequently than the user might.
Because of this,
we need to ensure that the application
remains responsive while auto saving.
The best approach to remaining
responsive during autosaving is to make
sure that you are saving efficiently,
that your serialization of your
in-memory contents is efficient,
that you're not saving
unnecessary data into your file,
and so forth.
However, there are some things that are
out of your control when it comes
to autosaving responsiveness,
such as file system latency.
In Lion, we had a couple of approaches
to help improve responsiveness.
The first is asynchronous saving.
The way this works is
that when saving begins,
you take a snapshot of
your document's state,
and then on a background thread,
NSDocument will have you serialize
that and write that out to disk.
And this frees the main thread so
the user can continue interacting
with your application and
even the very same document.
If asynchronous saving isn't feasible
for your application for whatever reason,
there's also cancelable auto saves.
The way this works is that
during a save operation,
you can peek at the event loop
to see if the user is trying to
interact with your application.
And if so,
cancel the auto save if appropriate,
returning control to the run loop
and allowing the user to continue
interacting with the application.
And then NSDocument will respond
by scheduling the auto save for
some time in the near future
when hopefully the user is idle.
For more information
about these techniques,
you can see the talk that we gave
last year on Auto Save and versions.
That's available at developer.apple.com.
Another thing you need to consider
when enabling Auto Save and
iCloud is serialization.
There are a couple of resources
in NSDoctument that need to be
serialized properly when you have
asynchronous things happening like
autosaving and events from iCloud.
The first is User Activities,
and the next is File Access.
Let's talk about User Activities first.
These include operations like Save,
Revert, Duplicate, Print,
and new in Mountain Lion, Move, Rename,
and iCloud Conflict Resolution.
All of these activities are started
either directly or indirectly by the
user and have a few things in common.
Most of them show some sort of UI that
allows the user to instruct you how
the operation is to be performed.
Sometimes, the performing that operation
results in errors that need
to be presented to the user,
and those errors can
provide paths for recovery.
All of these steps are
wrapped up in an activity.
Let's use printing as an example.
Suppose the user is in the
middle of printing a document.
And all of a sudden,
we receive a conflict from iCloud.
NSDocument is going to try to show
the conflict resolution panel,
which involves showing
a sheet on the window.
However,
if the user is in the middle of printing,
they're not really going to be
able to understand properly what
it means to resolve the conflict.
And indeed, if we were to attempt to
do this simultaneously,
it plain wouldn't work because
both printing and conflict
resolution use sheets,
modal UI on the window that requires
exclusive access to that window.
You can't have two sheets visible
on the same window at the same time.
The solution to this is an API that
we added in line on NSDoctument called
PerformActivityWithSynchronousWaiting
using Block.
We wrap this entire activity
from beginning to end in the
block that we passed to this API.
And what NSDoctument will do once we've
done this is it will cause the subsequent
activities to be deferred until all
previous activities have been completed.
And we signal completion by
invoking the completion handle
that's passed to this block.
Now, if your application doesn't
provide any custom activities,
you don't really need
to think about this API.
However, for those of you who do,
I want to stress one point to make
sure that in every path in your
blocks inside perform activity that
you invoke the completion handler
because the results are not pleasant.
If you're not invoking the completion
handler and this document doesn't
realize that the activity is completed,
and all future activities get pushed
off into the future and never happen
until that completion handler is invoked.
This can result in
problems like deadlock,
which we want to avoid.
Let me show you a quick demo of a
situation that we ran into when an
application was adopting iCloud,
where perform activity with synchronous
waiting was required to solve a problem.
We'll use Sketch again to
replicate this same scenario.
I'll go to my Window Controller subclass.
And here in an override of show window,
I'm going to enable some code that shows
an alert that basically just tells you
how many documents are in the window.
And here in the window,
I'm going to enable some code that shows
how many graphics are in the document.
Not a particularly useful
bit of information,
but you can imagine an application
that shows an alert when,
for example, there's fonts missing that
are required by that document.
So let's go ahead and build and
run with these changes and open
up this document that I showed
you before has conflicts on it.
You see here,
the alert comes up as expected.
However, when I dismiss this alert,
nothing happens.
I'm not shown the
conflict resolution panel.
And if I try to interact
with that document further,
the application hangs.
So something is definitely wrong here.
What's happening is that the alert,
the sheet for this alert
that I'm trying to show,
is competing with the conflict resolution
panel that NSDoctument is trying to show.
So as I showed you before,
We can serialize these so they happen
one at a time and don't compete by using
performActivityWithSynchronousWaiting.
In this case, I'm passing no because
this isn't an action that's
initiated directly by the user.
And I'll move all of this
[Transcript missing]
And what I'm doing here is
I'm invoking this method,
which I have up here,
that basically just invokes
the block that's passed in
as the context info pointer.
And here I'm passing in the
activity completion handler.
[Transcript missing]
So let's go ahead and build and run now.
And open this document.
We get the alert that I am showing.
And once that's dismissed,
the conflict resolution
panel properly appears,
and we can resolve the conflict.
These two activities have
been properly serialized,
so they're no longer competing.
The next kind of serialized
resource is file access.
And what I mean by file access is
anything inside of your document
that needs to be synchronized with
the state of the document's file.
This includes the URL, modification date,
the in-memory representation
of the on-disk contents,
and the edit state of the document,
among other things.
So reading or writing any of this
information should be done protected
by the file access serialization
APIs that NSDoctument provides,
or else you could be working with
an incomplete or an inconsistent
state of your document.
There are two types of file access APIs.
There's a synchronous API that blocks
the main thread until all previous,
or the thread that it's invoked on,
until all previous file access
attempts have completed.
It's invoked synchronously,
and when the block that
you pass to it returns,
the file access for that block
is relinquished automatically.
There's also an asynchronous API,
which works by enqueuing the
block and returning immediately.
And that block will be invoked sometime
in the near future when all previous
file access attempts have completed.
This asynchronous API is
required to work safely with
documents on non-main threads.
And when doing so,
when you need to resume work
on the main thread prior to
relinquishing file access,
you need to be sure to do that
using continuous synchronous
work on main thread using block,
which is another API in
NSDocument that we added in Lion.
And it helps avoid deadlocks that can
happen in this particular scenario.
And there's a lot more information
about this API in last year's
Auto Save Inversions talk as well.
Sometimes bugs happen.
You forget to call the completion
handler for an activity or
an asynchronous file access,
and the result is things like
hangs and blocks never executing.
Sometimes these hangs happen,
and you look at the backtrace,
and you don't see any of your own code.
Instead of assuming that it's
a bug with the framework,
You should consider problems that
might be within your own application.
However,
these were very hard to find in line
because there wasn't any information
in the backtrace or so forth.
In Mountain Lion,
we've made this debugging experience
easier by leaving breadcrumbs,
stack traces,
wherever activity and file access
APIs are used so that you can go
back and trace this information.
You can access this with a
debug function called underbar
NSDocumentSerializationInfo.
And this name could change at any time.
It's not in any headers.
So again, please don't use this in code.
But you're welcome to
use it in the debugger.
I'll show you a quick
example of a case where,
how you might use this.
I've got an application that's hanging,
so I look at the back trace and
I see code that doesn't belong to me,
it belongs in NSDoctuMent.
But near the top of the stack is perform
synchronous file access using the block.
So I assume that there's a previous
file access attempt that's not finishing
up and blocking this particular one.
So I PO underbar NSDocument
serialization info,
and this dumps a bunch of information
that helps me track down the problem.
First I find the stack trace
that matches the current hang,
and I see that it is indeed waiting
for previous file access to complete.
By looking up earlier in this dump,
we see an active file access
that was initiated by a method
called DoSomethingWithFile.
While it could be possible that this
is just taking a long time to complete,
I suspect that there might
actually be a bug here.
So let's look at the code.
Hopefully this looks
familiar to my earlier demo.
We see an attempt to perform
asynchronous file access.
And inside here,
when the file URL is not nil,
we perform some file access.
And in this completion handler,
we invoke the completion handler for the
Perform Asynchronous File Access API.
Those of you with a sharp eye will
notice that when the file URL is not nil,
I was failing to call
the completion handler,
which resulted in all future file
access attempts to block infinitely.
So this debug functionality that
we've added in Mountain Lion makes
pinpointing this problem a lot easier.
The last topic on Auto Save is versions.
Versions is how we implement
revert functionality in
Auto Saving applications,
and also the versions browser.
It works by NSDoctument periodically
preserving document contents
when it deems appropriate.
does this in a very
disk-space efficient manner,
only saving the changes that
were made from previous versions.
And it's important to note that
this happens automatically.
Most applications don't need to
bother with anything about versions.
It happens without you doing anything,
just by enabling Auto Save.
However,
there were some optimizations that
we made to version preservation
in Mountain Lion that some
applications may need to be aware of.
There are two times when NSDoctument
might decide to save a version.
One happens immediately prior to saving.
In Lion, when we decide to preserve
a document during saving,
We would copy the document into the
version storage in a manner that happens
synchronously on the main thread.
Then finally,
wrote the new contents of the document.
This could result in a long wait for the
user when the document is sufficiently
large that the copy takes a while.
In Mountain Lion,
we added an optimization that takes
advantage of the backup file that
happens during NSDoctument safe saving.
And NSDocument Safe Saving can
work by first moving the document,
renaming it so that it
has a different name,
indicating that it's a backup.
Once that file is moved aside,
then we write the new contents in place.
And since the backup file
contains the prior contents that
we wanted to save into versions,
we can simply move that file into
the version storage since the
user doesn't need it anymore since
the save completed successfully.
This avoids the wait for the
copy that we had in Lion.
Again, most applications don't
need to think about this.
It happens automatically.
But those who override the method
WriteSafelyToURL of type for save
operation error and don't call super need
to be aware of a contract that now exists
between this method and its caller.
That contract is that
before the method returns,
writeSafetyURL is required to save the
original contents of the document to the
URL specified by backup file URL when
that method returns a non-nil value.
Some applications that override
writeSafetyURL do so to implement
incremental saving in place.
In these cases,
it might not be possible to
efficiently save the previous
contents of the document to backup
file URL in an efficient manner.
In this case,
it's appropriate to override
backup file URL and return nil.
This is a signal to NSDoctument that
this optimization should not be used
and the old version preservation.
technique be used instead.
And NSDoctomate also preserves
versions after saving,
when the user explicitly saves,
since we use that as a hint,
meaning the user is interested in
this particular version and may
want to go back to it in the future.
and Mountain Lion,
we did this preservation by,
when we finished writing,
copying the newly saved version of
the document into version storage.
This happened on the main
thread in a manner that,
again, when sufficiently large,
would block the user from
interacting with the application.
In Mountain Lion,
we simply moved this copy
onto a non-main thread.
And this happens for any applications
linked against the 10.8 SDK.
This eliminates the
hang on the main thread.
And most applications don't
need to think about this,
since most file access happens
through NSDoctument's saving path.
However,
if you do any additional file access,
you need to make sure that that file
access does not happen during the copy.
If you attempt to write
to that file example,
for example, while NSDoctument is trying
to save it into versions,
you could end up with a corrupt version
of the document in the version storage.
So the solution is to wait until
the end of that file access by
using the file access serialization
APIs that I showed you earlier.
So that's it for Auto Save.
There's several topics
that we discussed today,
but primarily I want
you to get across that,
again, we believe Auto Save is the
modern document experience that
we want to provide for users.
So they don't have to think about the
difference between what they see on
screen and what's on disk at any time.
And it's also the last step
to enabling iCloud in your
NSDoctum based applications.
So let's return to talking
about it and talk about the
mechanics of how iCloud works,
starting with the UI.
I showed you a quick demo earlier
about how to open iCloud documents.
This is done primarily through
the app-centric open panel.
This open panel is unique because,
unlike previous versions of Mac OS X,
it is non-modal.
And as such, we need new API on
NSDocumentController to support this.
[Transcript missing]
So we've added beginOpenPanel
with completion handler,
which is a method you might invoke,
for example, in an override of
NSDoctrl's open document,
and beginOpenPanel for
types completion handler,
which is a method you might override
to customize the open panel.
Getting documents in and out of
iCloud is also done primarily
through the app-centric open panel.
But NSDoctoment also provides menu
items called Move To and Move to iCloud,
which allow the user to move documents
anywhere on the system without
having to leave the application
or very quickly directly to iCloud.
These operations are implemented
with a new method on NSDoctoment,
Move to URL Completion Handler,
which you can override if you need
to do any customization of a move.
The last way documents
get into iCloud is drafts.
Drafts are a new concept
in Mountain Lion.
And the way it works is that
whenever the user creates a
document in an iCloud-based,
an iCloud and its
document-based application,
that document is destined
to be saved into your
application's Ubiquiti container.
Indeed, when the user starts making
changes to that new document,
NSDocument will save a user-visible
file directly into the Ubiquiti
container using an a Save As operation,
which I'll discuss in a moment.
When it does so,
it marks this document as a draft.
And what that means is that the
user hasn't chosen an explicit
name or location for this document.
So when the user chooses to
explicitly save or close the document,
we'll still show the Save panel to
allow them to choose an explicit
name or location or delete the
document if they decide they
don't want to keep it after all.
This draft status remains
until the user chooses to save,
rename, move,
or any other operation that tells
us that the user is interested in
keeping this file around indefinitely.
And that happens,
the draft status is removed,
and we no longer show the
Save panel on Save or Close.
There are several APIs related to
drafts available in Mountain Lion.
The first is, as I said,
NSAutoSaveAs operation.
This fills in the last space in the
table that I showed you earlier.
It's an automatic operation that happens
when the user edits the document.
And it's very similar to Save As in
that it creates a new user-visible file,
[Transcript missing]
There are other APIs, such as accessors,
for the draft status of a document.
You have the ability to
customize the name of a draft.
For example,
if your application uses templates
for creating untitled documents,
you can give the user some
more information about what
these draft documents are by,
for example, using those template names.
In a word processing application,
you could have a template
for a resume or a newsletter.
And when the user creates these
drafts of these templates,
they can be saved as these names
in iCloud instead of untitled,
untitled 2, untitled 3, so forth.
Finally, if there is a special case where
you have a document subclass
where drafts are not appropriate,
you can disable them by overriding
Auto Save's drafts and returning no.
Let's move on to how iCloud works under
the covers a little bit more in depth.
Maybe we can talk later about how your
application should interact with iCloud.
When your application wants to make
changes to the document's file,
it starts a coordinated write
and saves the document within
that coordinated write.
When this coordinated write happens
within the Ubiquiti container,
the system notices this,
takes those changes,
and uploads them to iCloud.
And those changes are made available
to all other devices connected
to the same iCloud account.
In the other direction,
when receiving changes
from another machine,
those get uploaded to iCloud.
and download it to your local machine.
What the system will do is it will
itself start a coordinated write.
And if that particular document
is still open in your application,
it will take note of that.
And when the write completes,
it will revert to show the user the
current contents of that document.
Finally, sometimes changes can happen
simultaneously or simultaneously
in the point of view of iCloud.
And when those changes
get uploaded to iCloud,
it doesn't have enough information
to make a decision about which file
is supposed to be the most current.
So instead of attempting that,
it uploads every version of
that document to every peer,
and it's the user's
responsibility to decide which
version to keep going forward.
And once the user makes that
decision on one machine,
that decision is propagated to all of the
devices connected to the same account.
Now let's talk about best practices
when enabling iCloud in your
NSDoctument-based application.
First, override NSDoctument
as little as possible.
NSDoctument provides a lot
of functionality for you,
and the less that you override,
or the lower level that you
override NSDoctument's methods,
the more that you're
going to get for free,
and the more consistent you're going to
be with other applications on the system.
Next, the open panel for iCloud
provides a simplified view of the
user's iCloud document library.
And as such,
it does not show the accessory view
that may be attached to an open panel.
So your application should look
at alternative ways to providing
the same functionality as your
open panel accessory views to
get the same functionality.
Since NSDoctument's conflict
resolution panel uses
Quick Look thumbnail and previews,
Your application should provide
a quality Quick Look generator so
the user has as much information as
possible when resolving conflicts.
This is good advice in general,
since Quick Look is used
throughout the system.
Next,
you should think about file formats.
First, think about forward and
backward compatibility.
Sometimes users will not have the
latest version of your application
on all their iCloud-enabled devices.
And so you need to be prepared
to handle what happens when the
user attempts to open a document
created with a new version of your
application with an old version,
and vice versa.
Also, if your application has both
Mac OS and iOS versions,
You need to make sure that there isn't
any device-specific information saved in
the file that would not be interpreted
properly on a different platform.
So, on iOS devices, as you know,
the file system isn't
accessible by the user.
And it's possible to hide
information in files on iOS,
such as an undo stack.
This isn't really appropriate when using
iCloud because those files get synced,
get downloaded to OS X devices.
So, on iOS devices, as you know,
the file system isn't
accessible by the user.
And it's possible to hide
information in files on iOS.
For example, when your device receives
changes from iCloud,
how does it respond?
It is probably not a good idea to
respond by writing to the file.
This would result in that
change being uploaded to iCloud,
downloaded to another machine,
which would then react by making
another change to the document,
which gets uploaded to iCloud,
and so forth.
You end up with a ping-pong situation,
which not only wastes network traffic,
but is generally problematic.
It's also possible for users, of course,
to view their documents
on multiple devices.
And these devices may not be connected
to the internet at every moment.
So you want to make sure that all
the changes that get saved into
your document are the result of
direct user edits to that document.
If you save other information like
scroll position or current selection,
this could result in a situation where
unintended conflicts are created,
which could be confusing to the user
since they haven't actually made any
significant changes to the document.
Finally, be sure you test reverting.
This is used extensively with
file coordination in iCloud.
When changes are downloaded from iCloud,
again, NSDocument will revert to the
current contents of the file.
This is so the user can see the
latest state of the document
as downloaded from iCloud.
And you need to make sure
that your application shows
those new contents properly.
The same goes for conflict resolution.
When a conflict is presented and the
user chooses a different version to keep,
NSDocument reverts to that
version to reflect that decision.
So NSDoctument provides a
lot of functionality for you,
as you can see.
And it's built on
several foundation APIs.
The first is file coordination.
Again,
NSDoctument registers itself as a file
presenter and does file coordination
when reading and writing the document.
There's also a URL for Ubiquity
Container Identifier on NSFileManager.
This is the API used to give you the
location of the iCloud container for
opening and saving documents there.
NSMetaDataQuery provides API for finding
and getting updates about iCloud files.
And there are some new APIs in
Foundation in Mountain Lion.
The first is Ubiquity Identity Token.
This is an API that gives you
an opaque token representing the
currently logged in iCloud account.
What's interesting about this
method is that when the user has
disabled iCloud documents or has
logged out of iCloud completely,
this method returns nil.
And since this method is
very quick at returning,
it's appropriate for invoking on the main
thread when you need to check if iCloud
is even enabled in your application.
[Transcript missing]
There's also a notification that gets
sent out by NSNotificationCenter when
this identity changes,
when the user enables or
disables iCloud documents,
or when the user logs
in or out of iCloud.
This is NSUbiquity Identity
to Change notification.
You can also use this API together
with the Ubiquity Identity
token to detect changes between
changes any user's iCloud account
so you can react to that properly.
Finally, it is possible to disable all of
NSDoctument's iCloud features,
with the exception of file coordination,
since that's not specifically iCloud.
It's used for proper file coordination
with the rest of the system.
But all of the UI and so forth
that NSDoctument provides,
you can disable by overriding users'
ubiquitous storage and returning no.
So we talked about a lot of topics today,
about Auto Save, how to adopt it,
how to ensure responsiveness in
your application when auto saving,
how to ensure proper serialization,
and things you may need to
know about with versions.
With iCloud, we showed you how to adopt
that in your application,
how it works in the UI and
underneath the covers,
and best practices.
There are a lot of sessions related
to iCloud at the conference.
Earlier today was using
iCloud with UIDocument.
This, of course,
is the OS X companion to that talk.
There's also a Using iCloud with
Core Data talk after
this on Thursday at 4.30.
And an
Advanced iCloud Document Storage talk
tomorrow at 3.15.
This is appropriate if
NSDoctument doesn't really apply
to your particular application,
or you need to do a little
bit more with iCloud.
For more information,
this is a contact info for Mike Jurowicz,
the Developer Tools and
Performance Evangelist.
That's it.
Thank you for coming.